How to clear the cache of my installed apps in Windows 11?



https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/questions/4053360/how-to-clear-the-cache-of-my-installed-apps-in-win



How to clear the cache of my installed apps in Windows 11?

Anonymous
Mar 18, 2024, 3:20 AM
Hi there,

I haven't had a Windows PC for a number of years, I've been using Android smartphones as my go-to device for emails, web browsing, news, etc. I'm well versed in most things tech, however, I do not have anywhere near the skills of a full stack developer. I know how to navigate the Windows 11 operating system, but I couldn't code an Android smartphone app or create a widget using an API - you get the picture.

My goal is to clear the cache on my installed apps. Using Android, this is pretty straightforward. Now that I have this Windows 11 laptop, I'm unable to locate an option to clear the cache of, say Google Chrome, which usually builds up a sizable cache that needs to be cleared on a regular basis.

I've tried going into Settings --> Apps --> Installed Apps --> then when i click on the 3 dots to attempt to open a settings menu or something akin to that - all that shows up is "Modify" but its in a grey colored font meaning you can't click on that option an proceed further.

Is there a way to clear the cache of your apps in Windows 11? Does Windows do that automatically? On my Android smartphone I consider clearing my cache essential for maintaining optimal performance of the device.

Anybody have some input they could provide? It would be greatly appreciated, as I feel sort of stuck here.

Thank You!

-Ben

Windows for home | Windows 11 | Settings

Locked Question. This question was migrated from the Microsoft Support Community. You can vote on whether it's helpful, but you can't add comments or replies or follow the question.

I have the same question 
87
{count} votes
 Answer accepted by question author

John Jefferson Doyon
47,000 Reputation points• Independent Advisor
Mar 18, 2024, 6:35 AM
Thank you Ben for clarifying!

For Google Chrome, you can easily clear the cache by following these steps:

> Open Google Chrome.

> Click on the three-dot menu icon in the top right corner.

> Select "Settings" from the dropdown menu.

> Scroll down and click on "Privacy and security" in the left sidebar.

> Under the "Privacy and security" section, click on "Clear browsing data."

> Choose the time range for which you want to clear the cache. For clearing all cache, select "All time."

> Check the box next to "Cached images and files."

> Click on the "Clear data" button.

This should help keep your Google Chrome browser running smoothly and optimize your laptop's performance.

You can also try Microsoft PC Manager app, which you can download via the Microsoft Store app or through this link: https://pcmanager.microsoft.com/

Once downloaded, you can pin it to your taskbar for easy access. With this app, you can utilize all the features Microsoft offers to optimize your PC without the need for any third-party apps. Simply navigate to Storage > click "Scan" to clear application and system web cache simultaneously. While some apps may still require manual cache clearing, such as Chrome, I hope this app greatly helps you manage space and keeps your laptop running smoothly.

I hope this information helps. Please let me know if you have any further questions or concerns.

John J.D.


 
18 people found this answer helpful.
3 additional answers

John Jefferson Doyon
47,000 Reputation points• Independent Advisor
Mar 18, 2024, 4:47 AM
Hi Ben, I am John J.D., a fellow Microsoft user like you.

I understand your frustration, and I'm here to help. Could you please specify which app you're trying to clear the cache for?

Apps installed from outside the Microsoft Store, often referred to as third-party apps, may not integrate as deeply with Windows settings, including the "Advanced options" for repairing, reset, and uninstallation. These apps manage their cache independently, and you typically need to clear it through the app’s own settings or manually via the file system.

Please let me know which app it is. I'm here to help you further.

John J.D.

 
2 people found this answer helpful.

Anonymous
Mar 18, 2024, 5:52 AM
Hey John J.D. - thank you for the response - I'd like to clear the cache on all my apps, but specifically my Google Chrome web browser as it usually builds up enormous cache space on your hard drive - if a PC is similar to a smartphone, wouldn't clearing the cache(s) be a beneficial idea to keep the laptop running smoothly and its performance as close to optimal as is possible?

That was the long answer----Short answer: the Google Chrome web browser.

 
1 person found this answer helpful.

Anonymous
Mar 18, 2024, 7:41 AM
John J.D. -

Thank you so much for your prompt and detailed response to my question!

Your advice was spot-on. Thanks again, I really do appreciate it!

Ben
 
3 people found this answer helpful.
